# Parameters management

Administrators can access the parameters' management in *Team > Dashboard > Parameters*.

## Create parameter

::tip-warning
Always check the list of parameters before creating a new one to avoid duplicate.
::

The new parameter(s) created will apply only to your team.

1. Click **Add** button on top right.
2. Enter the Name of your new parameter and eventually a description
3. Select the Type of your parameters in the dropdown
4. Allocate the parameter to one or several inventory(ies).
5. Click **Create** button

## Edit parameter

1. Click **Action** dot button on the right of the parameter
2. Select **Edit**
3. Update the information
4. Click **Update** button

::tip-danger
If the parameter is already filled for one record it is impossible to delete it. The global parameters can be updated only by a [super-administrator](/laboratory-information-management-system/super-administration/global-parameters-management#edit-global-parameter)
::

## Global parameters

Global parameters are created by the super-administrator of your server and are common to all teams. Global parameters are useful to search into [Public records](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/search#search-into-public-records).

## Expiry date parameter

If you want the parameter to be an expiry date, select Expiry date in the **Type** dropdown when you create the parameter.

When you add a record into the inventory, specify the day of expiry. You will get a notification when the date of this record is expired.

Check the expired records by using the [filter](/laboratory-information-management-system/search-record#filters) **Expired** in the inventory.

## Required parameters

Required parameters can be associated to a [category](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/categories-management#create-category).

1. If not existing, [create the parameter](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/parameters-management#create-parameter)
2. During the creation of a new category, switch the parameter that need to be required. If the category already exists, simply [edit the category](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/categories-management#edit-category) to add the required parameter.
