# Locations management

Administrators can access the locations' management in *Team > Dashboard > Locations*.

## Create location

1. Click **Add** button on top right
2. If the new location depends on another location, select the parent location in the Dependence dropdown
3. Enter the name of your new location.
4. Select the Type of the location. The type *box* is set by default but many options are available.

::tip-warning
If your location is a box, it is mandatory to enter the number of rows and columns to edit the [overview](/laboratory-information-management-system/storage/overview) of the box. You can choose between numeric or alphabetic for the rows and columns name.
::

Optional steps:

* *Description* to enter more details about the location.
* *Unique code* if your location use barcoding (Enter the number of the barcode).
* *Status* : switch to *Inactive* to hide the location in the inventory.
* *Temperature*

::tip-info
Add a sub-location directly from the overview of <mark>Locations</mark>.

1. Click **Action** dot button on the right of the location
2. Select **Add**
3. The Dependence is pre-filled, fill the other fields and save.
::

## Edit location

1. Click **Action** dot button on the right of the location
2. Select **Edit**
3. Update the information
4. Click **Update** button

::tip-danger
If the location is a box which contains records (or contained in the past), only the name and the dependency can be changed. If the box has never been used, the rows and lines settings can still be changed.
::

## Create or edit box

1. Click **Add** button on top right
2. Select **Box** in Type dropdown
3. Enter the number of rows and columns to edit the [overview](/laboratory-information-management-system/storage-overview#overview) of the box. You can choose between numeric or alphabetic for the rows and columns name.

## Move a location with its content to another location

1. Click **Action** dot button on the right of the location
2. Select **Edit**
3. Change the dependence in the dropdown menu
4. Click **Update** button

## Delete location

1. Click **Action** dot button on the right of the location
2. Select **Delete**

::tip-danger
A location containing records cannot be deleted.
::
