# Add record

## Add new record

::tip-info
Before adding any records:
1. Make sure the workspace is ready. You may need to create additional [parameters](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/parameters-management#create-parameter) and [locations](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/locations-management#create-location) in the Dashboard. Access to the Dashboard is restricted to the [administrator](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/members-management).
2. Creation of [categories](../4.dashboard/3.categories-management.md) is not mandatory. However, when you add a new record you have to assign a category and/or a name.
::

1. Click **Add** button on top right of the Team Homepage or the Inventory page (in that case the Inventory will be pre-filled)
2. Select the Inventory (only if you click Add from the Team Homepage)
3. The record is set as Private by default. Switch to [Public](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/add-record#private-public-records) if needed.
4. Choose a category or enter a name (or both)
5. Fill the collection date
6. Fill the required parameters if any
7. Eventually select other parameters to fill from the list on the left
8. Enter the location(s)
    * Option 1 - location is a box: select the spots to store your record(s) (number of spots will correspond to the quantity). For each spot you can add a volume (optional).
    * Option 2 - location is not a box: enter the quantity of your record.
    * Option 3 - location is currently unknown: do not fill the location and click [Save as draft](#save-as-draft) button at the bottom of the page.
9. Manage the permission to access this record. By default, the members of your team can *see and edit* the record. [Change the permission](#change-access-permission-to-a-record) if needed and/or [add permission](#add-permission-to-other-users) to other users (who are not member of the team).
10. Add comment and attachement (optional)
11. Click **Add** button or **Save as draft** button

## Duplicate a record

In case the new record to enter has similar details (or very few changes) than an existing record, you can use the **Replicate** option. From *Team > Inventory* Listing:

1. Click View button on the right of the record of interest
2. Click **Duplicate** button on the top
3. All the parameters are pre-filled from your new record, change the values if needed.
4. Add the collection date and pick the location
5. Click **Add**

## Change access permission to a record

By default, added records are set as *see and edit* to all team members. Other permissions are available to restrict access to the record:

* **see and edit** allows full action on the record: see and edit the parameters, see the location and remove stock.
* **see everything** allows to see the parameters and location and remove stock. However, the parameters cannot be edited.
* **see only parameters** is the more restrictive permission. It only allows to see the parameters of the records. Location is hidden, stock cannot be removed and edition is unavailable.

Choose the permission for the members when you add the record or change anytime in the record overview by clicking Permissions button.

::tip-warning
Administrators are automatically set with **see and edit** permission. Their permission cannot be changed.
::

## Add permission to other users

You can give access to your record to someone not in your team.

Give permission when you add the record:

1. Click **Add** button on top right of the Team Homepage or Inventory page. Enter the [details](#add-new-record) of the record.
2. In the **Permissions** panel, Search the name of the user and [choose a permission](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/add-record#change-access-permission-to-a-record)
3. Click **Save**

Give permission to an existing record:

1. Click **Permissions** button at the top in the overview of the record
2. Search the name of the user and [choose the permission](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/add-record#change-access-permission-to-a-record)
3. Click **Confirm**

## Use an Excel file to import records

[See import records with Excel sheets](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/import-record)

## Private/Public records

Private records are visible by the team only.

If you switch to Public, the record become visible in the Public records listing to all users in the server.

The details of the record are visible but the location remains hidden. Users from other teams can contact you if they are interested in your record.

::tip-info
Your records are automatically set as private. You can switch to public when you enter a new record. To give access to only selected users, use the [Permissions](#add-permission-to-other-users) option instead.
::

## Pick location for the record

* Option 1 - location **is a box**: select the spots to store your record(s) (number of spots will correspond to the quantity). For each sport you can add a volume (optional).
* Option 2 - location **is not a box**: enter the quantity of your records.
* Option 3 - location is currently **unknown**: do not fill the location and click Save as draft button at the bottom of the page. Edit the location later in the overview of the record.

## Add attachment(s)

You can attach document(s) in several formats (pdf, xlsx, docx, pptx, images…)
When you add or edit a record attach the documents in the panel **Extras**.

::tip-info
Drag and drop into the box to attach your document.
::

## Save as draft

If you don’t know the location of your record yet, don’t fill the location panel and click Save as draft button.

View the draft records in the Inventory listing by using the filter on the top.

Edit the location from the overview of the record:

1. Click **View** button on the right of the item
2. Select **Add stock** in the Locations panel
3. [Add location](#pick-location-for-the-record) and save

## Required fields

If required parameters are not filled, the button **Add** remains disabled. [Required parameters](/laboratory-information-management-system/dashboard/parameters-management#required-parameters) can be set from the Dashboard.

::tip-info
Required parameters appear in teal in the [excel template](/laboratory-information-management-system/records/add-record#use-an-excel-file-to-import-records) for bulk import.
::

## Receive record from other team

When you received records transferred from another team, a notification appears in the Team Homepage All the records received are listed:

1. Click **Recover** button to add the record into your inventory.
2. Select the Inventory where you want to store the received record.
3. Select the parameters to allocate for the details of the record. In case the parameter does not exist in your workspace you can choose to clone the parameter.
4. Choose the location of the record.

::tip-warning
Only the quantity received can be stored, you will get a error message if you are trying to store more.
::
